---
layout: post
title:  "The Need for 1:1 Meetings"
date:   2016-03-16 22:45:00
author: Mark
categories: posts
tags:	one on one, management
---
Up until a few years ago I had been living in a world where my work consisted of attending scrum five times a week, attending regular scrum ceremonies such as backlog grooming or a retrospective, and occasionally popping into my bosses office if I was hung up on a technical issue. For the sake of the story, let's call my boss Pete. Most of the time, I would wind up [rubber ducking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_duck_debugging) myself the minute I stepped into Pete's office and as a result, would race back to my desk to address the problem that had me so hung up.  Other than the mid-year and year-end review, there were few opportunities for feedback and my frustration at the lack of communication grew. 

While my frustration grew, I did little to combat the situation. Getting lunch or coffee with Pete once a week would have been easy. Rather than rushing back to my desk after rubber ducking myself, I could have easily jotted down a few notes and sat down with Pete to learn how he would solve the issue. Doing so would have provided an opportunity to learn from my boss and also establish a stronger dialogue between us. Instead of being proactive, I just assumed that is how all managers are and it's not my place to build our relationship. This was dead wrong.

The lack of communication that had me so frustrated was quickly alieved when I started working on a new project in the summer of 2013. That first week, I received a recurring calendar invite from my new manager (let's call her Mary) that was simply titled Mark & Mary 1:1. At the time, I wasn't too sure what "1:1" meant but I knew it was a weekly meeting between Mary and myself. While we sat across from each other at the office, the dedicated time to meet was appreciated. At the first meeting, Mary laid out the basics of a 1:1- at its most basic, a 1:1 is a meeting to discuss ongoing work and for two people to identify what they need from the other in order to succeed. Over the next year and a half, I found that in addition to having clear expectations set, the meetings also provided the time for me to pick Mary's brain about a variety of topics. Coming out of those conversations, I received tips for working with difficult colleagues, a number of reading suggestions, and a better understanding of who Mary really was.

After taking a new job last March, I found myself working to learn the ins and outs of the organization and lost sight of the 1:1s which had been so valuable in the past. On most days while I am in the office, meetings take up a majority of my time (that's a future post) and my interactions with folks who are aligned with my focus area is sporadic at best. As a result, I started scheduling 1:1 meetings to make sure that both of us are benefitting from the dedicated time to discuss our work. As I prepared for the first 1:1 with my colleagues, I re-read Michael Lopp's well-known article _[The Update, The Vent, and The Disaster](http://randsinrepose.com/archives/the-update-the-vent-and-the-disaster)_ and sought to use his post as a guide. Second, I wrote out all of the tasks I had given them and then ranked their priority. This allowed me to quickly identify tasks that were obsolete, wasting a lot of time, or could use my assistance to get to done. Lastly, I added a bullet to my meeting notes that said, what do you need from me? With the prep work done, I scheduled the first meeting two weeks ago and to date, they haven't been a complete disaster. In fact, the impact has been quite positive! More to come as the meetings progress.
